INTRODUCTION
------------
Untitled is a program that interprets a blazon (a very terse and
formulaic description of a heraldic coat of arms), and turns it into a
picture.

[Description of what SVG is and why it matters (scalable)]

That is the theory, anyway. In practice, the SVG doesn't work with
some viewers, including Mozilla Firefox. This is not our fault - we
generate 100% genuine and certified SVG code - but we do so using a
number of advanced features that the aforementioned viewers simply
don't support. We suggest you use RSVG, since that's what we did.

SET-UP
------
This software requires the following:
- Python
- the Python base library
- SVGDraw
- PLY

In Debian, PLY is packaged as python-ply (still only in unstable). It
is also available from http://www.dabeaz.com/ply/ .
SVGDraw is not packaged yet as far as we know, but it is available at
http://www2.sfk.nl/svg .

Usage:
   python gen.py <blazon>

Example:
   python gen.py Vert a saltire argent.

Though, to actually view the shield, you need to save the SVG output
with redirection, e.g.:

   python gen.py Vert a saltire argent. > test.svg

Or pipe it into a viewer, such as:

   python gen.py Vert a saltire argent. | rsvg-view --stdin

If you are unfamiliar with blazonry, the Wikipedia article
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blazon is a good starting point. Some
examples of blazons that are currently supported can be found in
blazons-good.txt in the tests/ subdirectory.

WHY A BLAZONRY INTERPRETER?
---------------------------
Blazonry has been referred to as "the world's oldest programming
language" by several people. As language nerds and fans of historical
programming languages we thought that it would be the pinnacle of
coolness to actually have a proper implementation of this ancient
programming language.

Of course, the idea of blazonry being a programming language is only
half-serious. There are many blazons that need real artistic judgement
to be executed in a reasonable way, if at all. But maybe 80 to 90 % of
shields use only a small set of elements that are combined in a simple
way. The goal of Untitled is to cover all of these.

A few of you might instead ask, "Why _another_ blazonry interpreter?"
Those of you who are into heraldry might know of a Windows program
called Blazons! that does more or less the same thing as Untitled
does.

The main difference is that, whereas Blazons! draws bitmap images in
only one set size, Untitled produces vector graphics. Since bitmaps
don't scale well, you can't use the images drawn by Blazons! for any
serious purpose. But you can scale vector graphics to any size without
loss of quality, and you can even use it in print.

Blazons! has a big advantage over Untitled, however, in that it
contains a much larger library of charges. In general, it can be said
that when Blazons! fails to render a blazon, it is because it gets
confused about the grammatical structure of the blazon, but when
Untitled fails to render a blazon, it is because it contains charges
it doesn't know about.

LITERATURE
----------
James Parker (1894): A Glossary of Terms Used in Heraldry.
http://www.heraldsnet.org/saitou/parker/index.htm

St. George's Roll.
http://perso.numericable.fr/~briantimms/rolls/StGeorgesE1.html

FOR DEVELOPERS
--------------
If you want to run the regression tests, you also need the following
components:

- xml.parsers.xmlproc library, which is a part of PyXML. In Debian,
  install the python-xml package.
- PIL (Python Imaging Library). In Debian, install the python-imaging package.

To run the regression tests, do:
   python regressiontest.py

It should output a lot of stuff, but end with OK. If it ends with
FAILED, you need to figure out if the production code or the test code
is wrong, and fix accordingly.

An easy way of adding a new gold standard shield is to add the blazon
at the end of gsblazons.txt, but prepended by an existing image file
(which of course will give a bogus result). For instance:

   1.png Azure semy-de-lis or.

When you run the test suite again, you will get an error (because the
new image looks nothing at all like 1.png). But do not despair! Simply
copy the newly generated tests/gsshields/out.png to an unused
filename, and updated gsblazons.txt accordingly, and rerun. There
should be no test failures this time.

Gyronny sable and argent on a roundel gyronny argent and sable on a roundel gyronny sable and argent on a roundel gyronny argent and sable a torteau
Per cross bendy argent and azure and bendy sinister argent and azure.
Per pall azure, vert and gules, a pall barry of twelve argent and sable.
Sable seventeen triangles or five, five, three, three, and one.
Vert two bendlets sinister argent.
Bendy-barry gules and or
Argent pellety.
